Network Access Control
Network Access Control (NAC )not only authenticates users and devices before allowing them access to the network but also checks and enforces compliance with established security policies. By evaluating the operating system version, patch level, antivirus status, or the presence of specific security software, NAC ensures that devices meet a minimum set of security standards before being granted network access.

NAC also can restrict access based on user profile, device type, location, and other attributes, to ensure users and devices can only access the resources necessary to complete their duties. NAC plays a crucial role in identifying and quarantining suspicious or noncompliant devices.

NAC and virtual local area networks (VLANs) work together to improve and automate network security. One of the primary ways NAC integrates with VLAN protections is through dynamic VLAN assignment. Dynamic VLAN assignment is a NAC feature that assigns a VLAN to a device based on the user's identity attributes, device type, device location, or health check results.

Agent vs Agentless Configurations

NAC can enforce security policies using agent-based and agentless methods.

In an agent-based approach, a software agent is installed on the devices that connect to the network. This agent communicates with the NAC platform, providing detailed information about the device's status and compliance level. An agent-based NAC implementation can enable features such as automatic remediation, where the NAC agent can perform actions like updating software or disabling specific settings to bring a device into compliance with mandatory security configurations.

In contrast, an agentless NAC approach uses port-based network access control or network scans to evaluate devices. For example, agentless NAC may use DHCP fingerprinting to identify the type and configuration of a device when it connects, or it might perform a network scan to detect open ports or active services.