Using Secure Protcols
Secure protocols have places in many parts of your network and infrastructure. Security professionals need to be able to recommend the right protocol for each of the following scenarios:

Voice and video rely on a number of common protocols. Videoconferencing tools often rely on HTTPS, but secure versions of the Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) and the Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) exist in the form of SIPS and SRTP, which are also used to ensure that communications traffic remains secure.

A secure version of the Network Time Protocol (NTP) exists and is called NTS, but NTS has not been widely adopted. Like many other protocols you will learn about in this chapter, NTS relies on TLS. Unlike other protocols, NTS does not protect the time data. Instead, it focuses on authentication to make sure that the time information is from a trusted server and has not been changed in transit.

Email and web traffic relies on a number of secure options, including HTTPS, IMAPS, POPS, and security protocols like Domain-based Message Authentication Reporting and Conformance (DMARC), DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM), and Sender Policy Framework (SPF) as covered earlier in this chapter.

File Transfer Protocol (FTP) has largely been replaced by a combination of HTTPS file transfers and SFTP or FTPS, depending on organizational preferences and needs.

Directory services like LDAP can be moved to LDAPS, a secure version of LDAP.

Remote access technologies—including shell access, which was once accomplished via telnet and is now almost exclusively done via SSH—can also be secured. Microsoft's RDP is encrypted by default, but other remote access tools may use other protocols, including HTTPS, to ensure that their traffic is not exposed.

Domain name resolution remains a security challenge, with multiple efforts over time that have had limited impact on DNS protocol security, including DNSSEC and DNS reputation lists.

Routing and switching protocol security can be complex, with protocols like Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) lacking built-in security features. Therefore, attacks such as BGP hijacking attacks and other routing attacks remain possible. Organizations cannot rely on a secure protocol in many cases and need to design around this lack.

Network address allocation using DHCP does not offer a secure protocol, and network protection against DHCP attacks relies on detection and response rather than a secure protocol.

Subscription services such as cloud tools and similar services frequently leverage HTTPS but may also provide other secure protocols for their specific use cases. The wide variety of possible subscriptions and types of services means that these services must be assessed individually with an architecture and design review, as well as data flow reviews all being part of best practices to secure subscription service traffic if options are available.



